Our theme for this month
is “Consider, Incite, and Encourage
One Another All the More So.”
JW Broadcasting
—why do we enjoy it so much?
Many of you have expressed
how the monthly broadcast draws you closer
to our brothers and sisters
and to Jehovah’s organization.
If you’re homebound or isolated,
you especially treasure these programs.
And yet, while we appreciate
the advances in technology
that have made all of this possible,
we know that your sincere desire
is to be present
with your brothers and sisters in person
at our congregation meetings.
Jehovah’s Witnesses
around the world share this feeling.
In northern Finland, for example,
winters are especially cold,
even by Finnish standards.
At times, temperatures plummet
to minus 50 degrees Celsius,
or minus 58 degrees Fahrenheit!
Under those conditions,
it’s very difficult to drive,
much less walk long distances.
Still, the brothers love
to gather together.
How do they manage it?
In one small village, there is a brother
who lives near the Kingdom Hall
and has a warm garage.
On meeting nights, he uses his car
to bring each family
in the congregation to the hall.
Then he parks in his garage and runs
the short distance back to the Kingdom Hall.
When the meeting is over, he returns
all the friends safely to their homes.
In the Bible,
gatherings for pure worship
were occasions for personal association
with fellow believers.
Such association required travel
to a designated place.
This involved work,
sacrifice, even risk.
Consider what is stated
at Exodus 34:24.
This verse has to do with the command
that every Israelite male
should gather three times a year
for the festivals in Jerusalem.
What would that mean
in practical terms?
Wouldn’t the nation
be left vulnerable to attack
if no men were left
to guard the land?
And if word spread
among the surrounding nations
that practically everyone
congregated in Jerusalem
three times a year,
like clockwork, year after year,
wouldn’t it be just a matter of time
before some invading army
would come
and pillage an Israelite city?
At Exodus 34:24,
we find
Jehovah’s remarkable answer:
“For I will drive the nations
away from before you,
and I will enlarge your territory,
and nobody will desire,”
yes, even desire, “your land
“while you are going up to see
the face of Jehovah your God
three times a year.”
Jehovah kept that promise.
It’s a historical fact
that from 1513 B.C.E.
all the way down to 66 C.E.
no foreign nation ever came
to invade Israelite territory
during those three annual festivals.
Jehovah placed high value
on having his people
gather together
in the same space.
In the Christian era,
the apostle Paul wrote
at 1 Corinthians 14:23
about ‘the whole congregation
coming together to one place.’
Now, although modern broadcasting
technology didn’t exist in those days,
there were other viable methods
of communicating, such as writing letters,
that didn’t require people to be physically
present in the same location.
Still, the apostle John,
though a capable writer,
preferred face-to-face interchange
with fellow Christians
as he expressed
at 2 John 12.
Or consider what is stated
at Job 1:6:
“Now the day came
when the sons of the true God
entered to take their station
before Jehovah.”
Job 2:1 speaks
of another such day.
Just imagine!
Here Jehovah himself,
though having all conceivable methods
of communication at his disposal,
set specific days
for his spirit creatures in heaven
to assemble
in his immediate presence.
Clearly, the Scriptures encourage
regular personal association
with fellow servants of God.
Virtual attendance through modern
communication technology has value,
and we’re happy to use it,
but it’s no substitute for being together.
And why not?
Because of what association
with the congregation achieves.
It’s not just that we receive nutritious
and varied spiritual food.
Meetings inform us,
but so does JW Broadcasting.
Meetings encourage us,
Fellow Christians who offer comments
and sing from the heart build us up,
and yet we can hear that also
on JW Broadcasting.
It’s when we’re together
—all together in one place—
that others can hear us
and draw encouragement
from our heartfelt convictions,
our smile, our handshake.
Meetings give us opportunities
to show our brothers and sisters
that we esteem them
as worthy of our time,
attention, and concern.
That is why we go and visit our brothers
who are homebound or isolated
because we want to show them
that we love them.
Moreover, in a special way,
our meetings bring us
under the influence of holy spirit.
At Revelation 2:7,
the glorified Jesus said:
“Let the one
who has an ear hear
what the spirit says
to the congregations.”
We need that spirit
to help us resist temptation,
to embolden and equip us
for the ministry,
and to enable us
to make sound decisions.
Still, there’s a reason
to attend meetings
that’s even more important
than the pleasant company,
the peaceful atmosphere,
the genuine refreshment,
the sense of belonging,
the opportunities to give,
or even the fact that meetings
are a means by which
we receive
Jehovah’s holy spirit.
The key reason
why we gather together
is stated at Psalm 26:12:
“My foot is standing
on level ground;
in the great congregation,
I will praise Jehovah.”
Yes, the principal reason
why we gather together in person
is to give Jehovah what he deserves
—praise, glory, yes, worship.
Our meeting attendance
shows Jehovah
that we want to draw close
to him and his Son.
In his abundant love, Jehovah invites
many more to serve him and keep living.
Because he lives eternally,
Jehovah can nurture
those relationships forever.
The Adversary can offer
no such hope of endless life,
so he promotes selfishness,
pride, and other negative traits
that isolate people from one another,
even when they are in the same room,
engaged in the same activities.
In contrast, our great God
is drawing his people
closer to himself,
to his Son,
and to one another
so that we “may all be one,”
as Jesus prayed
as recorded at John 17:21.
And it’s not just the act
of converging
on the same location
that unites us either.
Lots of people coexist in the same space
when they go to a market,
attend a sporting event,
or use public transportation.
Crowding of itself
does not equate with unity.
What makes the true
Christian congregation different?
Notice how Hebrews chapter 10,
verses 24 and 25
answers this question.
Now here we find
the divinely inspired standard
for all our gatherings:
“And let us
consider one another so as to incite
“to love and fine works,
not forsaking our meeting together,
“as some have the custom,
but encouraging one another,
“and all the more so as you see
the day drawing near.”
Now, what does it mean
to “consider one another”?
What does it mean
“to incite to love and fine works”?
And in what way might we
‘encourage one another’?
The verb “consider”
could also be rendered
“be concerned about;
pay attention to.”
So when
we “consider one another,”
we show interest
that goes far beyond a brief greeting.
And when we pay careful attention
to one another, we’re better prepared
to incite, that is, to motivate one another,
to stir one another to action.
And how might we do this?
Not by making comparisons
or shaming our brothers,
for that would hardly be
“encouraging one another,”
we endeavor to lift one another’s hearts
when we’re together.
And when we do this
to the best of our ability,
then we can be confident
that Jehovah’s spirit will do the rest,
and that our brothers
will feel strengthened.
It’s evident, then,
that true worship
means participation;
it requires a response.
Another noteworthy example of this
is the encouragement we both give
and receive when we sing together
with our brothers and sisters.
In ancient Israel,
at times they had a chorus,
such as the one described
in Nehemiah chapter 12
that we talked about
in our midweek meeting back in February.
Much of Israel’s group singing
was antiphonal,
that is, some of the singers
prompted others to respond.
For instance, Psalm 106
which begins and ends with the words
“Praise Jah!” or “Hallelujah!”
encouraged the people
to say in response: “Amen!”
Psalm 136 was written
to allow for different choruses
to answer one another.
Now just imagine
responding choruses
singing these alternating lines:
“Give thanks to Jehovah, for he is good;
“his loyal love endures forever.
“Give thanks to the God of gods,
“for his loyal love endures forever.
“Give thanks to the Lord of lords,
for his loyal love endures forever.”
And on it went for 26 verses!
To this day,
singing demonstrates
our heartfelt response
to the goodness of Jehovah.
What a joy it is to sing
in company with others who are moved
to pour out the depths
of their feelings to Jehovah!
And now at our Kingdom Halls,
we’re accompanied by orchestral renderings
of many of our songs
—another reason to sing out
at our midweek
and weekend meetings.
And speaking of the midweek meeting,
how are you enjoying the new format?
More of the program is devoted
to delving into the Bible itself.
Time spent on preparing us
for our public ministry
focuses more than ever
on situations we face in field service.
And the meetings move along
at a satisfying pace.
Yes, JW Broadcasting
is a wonderful blessing,
a powerful means to talk to
and fortify our brothers
around the world
—simultaneously.
Still, nothing can replace
the experience
of worshipping Jehovah
in concert
with our fellow servants of God
at congregation meetings.
When a meeting concludes
and we lift our heads
after the final prayer,
we find ourselves surrounded
by others who love Jehovah
and support his sovereignty.
These important benefits
are detailed
in the April 2016
study article
“Why Should We Meet
Together for Worship?”
This month, we’re studying
that article worldwide.
Later, in October,
we begin a special campaign
to invite the public
to our meetings.
If you do not yet regularly associate
with Jehovah’s Witnesses
or if you travel away
from your congregation, use jw.org
to find a meeting you can attend.
Click: “About Us,” “Meetings,”
and “Find a Location Near You”
or simply scroll to the bottom
of any jw.org page
and click “Attend Our Meetings.”
At our meetings,
you’ll experience what it means
to consider, incite, and ‘encourage
one another all the more so
as we see
the day drawing near.’